\chapter{Conclusion}
\label{chap:4}
\ChapterPageStuff{4}

\section{Discussion}

\subsection{Contributions made to literature}
A problem with software maintenance practices was identified where software developers struggle to
implement software maintenance. These software maintenance activities were primarily not correctly
prioritised. A method was needed to identify these software systems and create prioritization
recommendations for software maintenance. Event logging is an existing software tool that was
identified from literature in \Cref{chap:1} that can be used to identify systems that need software
maintenance. \par The study was split into two main study objectives that represent the logging
mechanism and the log analysis to make recommendations for software maintenance. To create
recommendations for software maintenance using a log analysis, the logging mechanism had to be
designed to capture the desired user-based event logs. \par A generic methodology was created for a
logging mechanism that focuses on the needed logging points, logging attributes and the overall log
quality defined from obtained literature for best log practices in the industry. For software
maintenance recommendations the log analysis is focussed on using the user-based event logs.\par The
addition of the requirements for the specific log analysis for software maintenance recommendations
narrows down the scope of which industry practices are needed for the logging mechanism. The
combination of these two separate study objectives creates a new generic methodology defined in
\Cref{chap:2}.

\subsection{Value added to industry}
The methodology in \Cref{chap:2} is used on different case studies in \Cref{sec:ch3_caseStudies}.
Each of these case studies explored the different applications of the generic logging mechanism to
obtain user-based events. The results proved that the logging mechanism can get the desired
user-based activities. However, some additional adaptions were needed for each case study to ensure
that the log quality is acceptable for consistent reliable log analysis.\par These adaptations were
due to the software environment (software languages and design methodologies used) and the purpose
of the software system. Older systems had to make use of different logging points to yield the same
result as newer software systems that can use less or one logging point.\par These systems used the
same user-based event type as they had similar software operational use cases. Systems with the same
software architecture but which had different operational use cases also had different adaptations
to their logging mechanism. These adaptions were to ensure that the desired log attributes were
correctly obtained for the log analysis. \par The maintenance prioritisation recommendations for
each study case made use of the defined generic methodology. The log analysis for each case study
was similar as the log requirements for the user-based utilisation for all the case studies were
only different for each of their user-based event types. These user-based event types represent the
operational use cases for the case study to further observe the type of utilisation of the
subsystems. \par The results proved that the generic methodology defined in \Cref{chap:2} can be
implemented on different software systems with different operational use cases for each case study.
In the web development industry similar software systems as as the case study or different software
systems, will benefit from the implementation of this methodology to improve software maintenance
decisions using these software maintenance prioritisation recommendations.

\subsection{Validation startegy}
To validate whether the study objectives have been met, the following validation strategy is
implemented:

\begin{enumerate}[label=\textbf{\Roman*.}]	
	\item \textbf{Gap identification:} There is a gap in the knowledge of improving software
	maintenance by prioritising certain software systems that need the most software maintenance
	resources spent on it by implementing a suitable generic methodology to fully identify these
	systems. This is defined in \Cref{chap:1} from the literature where software maintenance is
	studied further for the Operation and Maintenance phase of the SDLC.
	\item \textbf{Problem statement:} In \Cref{sec:ch1_problemStatement} the problem has been
	identified that software maintenance is an important part of software development. Implementing
	a suitable maintenance methodology can be difficult for developers as the software systems that
	need the most attention can be different from the user's perspective.  
	\item \textbf{Need for the study:} From the identified problem statement there is a need to
	obtain user-based data to do a system utilisation analysis to provide evidence for software
	maintenance prioritising. This needs for the study forms the basis for what is needed to resolve
	the identified problem.
	\item \textbf{Study objectives:} From the need for the study there were two primary objectives
	identified which are the logging mechanism objective and the log analysis objective.\par The
	logging mechanism objective is to use existing methodologies to create a logging mechanism to
	capture user-based event logs. This also includes improving the log quality to increase the
	accuracy and trustworthiness of the log analysis.\par The log analysis study objective is to use
	the obtained logs and implement a utilisation analysis on the software components to make
	software maintenance recommendations on which software components should be prioritised.
	\item \textbf{Methodology:} For this study the methodology was designed for web-based
	applications to narrow down the broad scope of case studies. In \Cref{chap:2} the methodology
	was implemented on a test system to verify if all the development of solution functional
	requirements in \Cref{tbl:ch2_developmenetRequirements} are met.\par These functional
	requirements are intended to decompose the study objectives into more specific and detailed
	requirements to facilitate the development of a solution. To validate the logging mechanism
	these main functional requirements:
	 \begin{itemize}
		\item Define the needed \textbf{log attributes} that is needed to define what events are
		user-based events using the user-based event types and what needs to be logged to complete a
		log analysis.
		\item Create and place \textbf{logging points} to capture the desired log attributes
		accurately and precisely during the software system's runtime without taxing the software
		system's normal operation too much.
	 \end{itemize}

	 To validate the logging analysis study objective the following main functional requirements
	 need to be implemented:
	 \begin{itemize}
		\item Using or creating a \textbf{log analysis} tool to extract the log data and transform
		it into usable analysis information about the software systems the users interact with.
		\item Applying a \textbf{software maintenance prioritisation} algorithm to be able to make
		recommendations on what software systems need to receive the most software maintenance
		resources.
	 \end{itemize}

	 After analysing the results of the case studies when applying the methodology and verifying
	 which functional requirements are met for each case study has been addressed as shown in
	 \Cref{tbl:ch3_functionalRequirements}. There were some exceptions where certain functional
	 requirements were not met, this was discussed why this happen for each specific case study.
\end{enumerate}

\section{Recommendations}
In \Cref{sec:ch3_caseStudies} the case studies highlighted the limitations of the methodology used.
To improve the methodology the functional requirements needs can be expanded on of the methodology.

\subsection{Logging qaulity}
In \Cref{sec:ch1_loggingQuality} described the event log quality as an essential part of the logging
mechanism. The event logs need to be accurate, manage complexity structure, and be consistent and
complete. For the methodology used not all of the dimensions of \Cref{fig:ch1_EventQModel} are used
to design the logging mechanism.\par This presents Case Study B's logging points functional
requirement (\ref{fr:loggingPoints}). The multiple logging points introduced inconsistencies in the
event logs for the groups of subsystems used. There are studies on how to improve event log quality,
but creating an event log quality model specifically for user-based event logging can increase the
log quality. The event log quality model doesn't have to have all the needed properties of
\Cref{fig:ch1_EventQModel}, but be modified for user-based event logging as
\Cref{fig:ch1_EventQModel} is a more generic log quality model for all types of event logging.

\subsection{Maintenance prioritisation}
The maintenance prioritisation (\ref{fr:maintenancePrioritising}) can have improvements made in
multiple different ways. The
\Cref{eq:ch2_maintenanceFactorSimplified,eq:ch2_eventNormalised,eq:ch2_priorityNormalised} makes use
of the total user-based event logs per subsystem $A_X$ and total users linked per system $P_X$ as
its base variables.\par From the results observed of the case study in \Cref{sec:ch3_caseStudies}
these base variables had an overwhelming impact on the prioritisation factor. Introducing other
variables that represent other factors from the log attributes can improve the accuracy of the
maintenance factor. One important variable that could have been used is the user activity type of
each case study.\par Throughout the study the user activity type was essential to describe what
event can be classified as a user event. This primary log attribute can add another dimension to the
results as some user activities may be more important to other types. \par For software systems as
in Case Study C where a large majority of the user activity types were grouped, it can be beneficial
for the final results. There aren't many differences between some activity types. Adding weight to
how important each user type is also another limitation of this study.\par Normalisation is used in
\Cref{eq:ch2_maintenanceFactorSimplified,eq:ch2_eventNormalised,eq:ch2_priorityNormalised} to make a
comparable scale for both of the main variables for the software maintenance prioritisation. While
normalisation did yield comparable results, there were numerous outliers on the low and high end of
each variable. The data doesn't follow a specific distribution or pattern as $S_{582}$ of Case Study
A that had a $A_N=1$. This subsystem had the highest $A_N$ but the $4^{th}$ highest $M_{PF}$ due to
its lower unique active user base.\par Using different techniques to formulate a software
maintenance priority factor may have placed $S_{582}$ higher if the effect of the total unique users
wasn't used as the primary prioritisation factor. There is a need to be able to accurately rank each
subsystem with each other.

\section{Conclusion}

\subsection{In summary}
\begin{itemize}
	\item There is a need to improve software maintenance activities in the industry but software
	maintenance prioritisation is still a problem for most software developers.
	\item Event-based logging is a proving method that has been used to get valuable information
	about a software system.
	\item A log analysis of the utilisation of the software system can provide the needed evidence
	to prioritise software systems based on the extracted log data.
	\item Creating a user-based event logging mechanism to implement a system utilisation analysis
	is the solution to the identified problem.
	\item Three different case studies with two distinct operational use cases verified the designed
	methodology for this study.
	\item The gap was validated by the methodology until the problem statement has resolved.
\end{itemize}

\subsection{In conclusion}
The problem statement of software maintenance can be improved or prioritised in certain systems by
the implementation of a user-based event logging mechanism to do a utilisation log analysis for the
improvement of software maintenance resource usage.